## Scope
A spatial electrification analysis based on the Open Source Spatial Electrification Tool (OnSSET)
## Description
Access to electricity is strongly linked to social- and economic development [4]. As of 2016 in Benin, residential access to electricity was limited to 29%. Targeting universal access to electricity by 2030 – as per SDG71 mandates – requires a combination of grid expansion and deployment of off-grid technologies. In this study, the Open Source Spatial Electrification Tool (OnSSET) was used to examine 21 electrification pathways for Benin. The tool leverages geo-spatial information and uses a least-cost approach to identify the most cost effective electrification solution in each settlement.
The selected scenario studies the effects and implication of targeting different levels of access to electricity as well as sensitivity to technology costs. Results show that 58-92% of the population in 2030 is expected to receive electricity from the grid. The remaining 8-42% is expected to gain electricity access through mini-grids or stand-alone systems. The total investment cost required to achieve universal electrification in Benin by 2030, ranges from 1.2 to 5.9 billion USD, depending on the level of service provided and technology cost developments. Stand-alone technologies are favoured at lower electricity access targets and in remotely or sparsely located areas; mini-grids and grid-connections are observed at higher demand levels and in more densely populated areas.

## Main Findings
Achieving universal access to electricity in Benin by 2030 in a cost-effective manner requires a combination of grid-connection and off-grid technologies. Across the scenarios examined, grid-connection is the least-cost alternative for 58-92% of the population in Benin by 2030. This corresponds to 47-90% of the new connections required by 2030. The remaining 8-42% of the population (10-53% of new connections) is electrified by mini-grids and stand-alone technologies. These are mainly PV based systems, but a small share of hydro mini-grids also appears in the mix. Stand-alone PV systems play an important role in providing electricity mainly for rural population and at low electricity targets. With higher access targets and the addition of productive loads (schools, health clinics), the optimal electrification technology solution motivates more mini-grids and grid-extension. In this case, stand-alone PV systems are only deployed in the most sparsely populated and remotely located population. The investment cost required to achieve universal access ranges from 1 236 million USD up to 5 895 million USD.