## Scope
Eswatini Assessment of Electrification Options - National Electrification Analysis

## Description
This study presents the geospatial analysis for achieving universal electrification in the Kingdom of Eswatini by 2030. The plan is supplemented by sensitivity studies with respect to three key parameters: demand level, off-grid component costing, and grid reliability. The results show the shares of the three technology options for delivering electrical service: individual solar home systems, mini-grids, and extension of the existing electricity grid. The analysis was conducted using the Reference Electrification Model (REM) which can perform techno-economic optimized power supply designs over large geographical areas to determine the least-cost mix of grid and off-grid electrification technologies.  

## Main Findings
The electrification analysis evaluates three technology solutions for the provision of electricity service throughout Eswatini: extension of the existing grid infrastructure, mini-grids, and individual solar home systems.
Eswatini is estimated to have a little over three hundred thousand electricity service connections by 2030 if it is to achieve universal electricity access by then. Among these connections, the existing EEC customer count is 216,651 (2020 data). There would be roughly 34,000 new customers through grid densification as they are estimated to be nearby (less than 100 metres) to the current grid infrastructure. An additional 50,000 new electricity consumers are projected further from the grid for whom either grid extension or off-grid systems could be a viable solution. Using REM simulation, the least-cost solution was identified for these customers who are further from the grid. Of these, 77% should receive energy service through an expansion of the existing electricity grid, with 23% receiving connections through individual home systems. Given the proximity of customers to the current network, the solution overwhelmingly favours grid extension over off-grid systems, and no mini-grids are optimised as the least-cost option for electrification in this base case scenario.

The sensitivity analysis was performed around key parameters: i) demand, ii) off-grid component cost, and iii) grid reliability. One of the main outcomes of the distribution network planning and universal access study highlighted in the analysis is that regardless of the variations, the least-cost solution for achieving universal access by 2030 for much of the country is to be electrified via grid extension. 